Let me ask you this, cuz you're this big coast to coast art bell fan. Right?
How much of that UFO stuff do you pay attention to?
None. None.
Yeah, major zero. When,
when people contact me on LinkedIn and their major credential, as they do a,
a UFO magazine or something like that, I don't add them.
I used to love that stuff. I think it was so interesting and intriguing.
Tell us to, yeah, I started actually paying attention to it. Yeah.
When I started interviewing some of the people that are involved in the
movement, you find the same thing over and over again, this just
wantant disregard for reality, this,
this absolute desire to prove something.
Instead of looking at the objective facts that that aliens are real proving that
we've been contacted. Okay.
Proving that these eyewitness testimonies are legitimate. Let me.
Try to get across a weird idea. Okay. Okay. Um,
once upon a time in the 1940s, there were two guys con Lorenze,
Nico Tinbergen who got a Nobel prize for inventing a field called letology,
which is a certain kind of observation of animal behavior.
And nicotenbergen would go off to the, uh,
coastal cliffs around Northern Europe.
And he would observe these sea birds and the sea birds would go out.
I don't know how many miles, 10 30, 40 miles,
and out to the ocean to feed and bring back food for the young.
And then they would come back at the end of the day and their nests they'd have
200 nests next to each other, but the nests had very low walls.
So when the seabird came back from her fishing and waddled herself into place,
moving her Hein back and forth to get in place, to incubate her chicks,
to warm the eggs, she'd often knock an egg out.
And when the egg was knocked outta the nest, the bird would reach her beak out,
pass the egg,
and then pull her beak back toward her chest to pull the egg toward the nest.
And she'd do it over and over again until she got the egg in the nest and Nico
tin Bergen had this weird idea.
I wish I knew where it came from that this is a reflex, you know,
like when your doctor takes a hammer and hammers your knee and your,
your leg shoots out and you had nothing to do with it,
he figured this is the same kind of a reflex.
And he figured that if you have a reflex,
you need a trigger for the reflex like that patella hammer that hammered your
knee.
So he looked to see if there was a trigger that triggered this yanking,
your beak back in, in order to scoop the egg back into the nest.
And he tried building artificial eggs to see if he could find out what the cues
were in the egg that were causing this reaction in the bird. And finally,
he got a super egg, which means, I mean, it was big than the normal egg.
It was browner than the normal egg. And he'd put the real egg. Now,
if you're the bird that real egg has your genetic legacy,
it's your genetic future. A lot is riding on that egg.
A lot of you and the phony egg and the phony egg
would attract the bird so strongly that she would ignore her own egg
and yank, yank, yank with her beak until she pulled the phony egg into the nest.
And they continued to do research with this kind of thing.
And they discovered that they could trick some song birds into taking a
basketball into their nest.
And then when the poor little birds tried to get on top of the basketball to
incubate it,
they would slide off and they'd be very frustrated and they would climb back on
again and slide off again. It was cruel.
So the phony eggs like fake.
Those are things called super normal stimuli. Oh,
and the eye idea is that they bring these reflexive reactions. Yes.
Well underlying what adollf Hitler was doing underlying what I was doing dancing
on that stage. Um,
underlying what you do in front of an audience when you get inesants and lose
yourself and something else talks through you, um,
all that is related to some super normal pattern
in us. Yes.
So Hitler was basically saying the world is about to end and the kingdom of
God is coming except the kingdom of God in his case was the
world will be controlled by the master race,
the blonde and blue-eyd S and a,
all other people will be slave people or will be exterminated. Um,
but it was this golden paradise that he was inviting the Germans to in which
they ruled the world because they were born to rule the world.
So, and how did you describe the stimulation? Super.
Super normal stimulus. So super.
Superor still stimulus of this artificial egg is like super normal stimulus
of this extreme behavior, right at the podium, right.
That attract people in, right. There's this.
Hmm. And basically Hitler was saying,
I was talking about the equivalent of extra terrestrials.
He was talking about this magic quality of the Germans.
He was talking about the shared soul of the Germans and how people in Vagner
operas. Um,
and the gods of the old Germans had been in the souls of these people.
And he was evokking the group soul, the zeitgeist, um, the,
in this case is the, vokgeist the spirit of a people.
And the flying saucer people are after an end of the world that in which the
world will be remade and a guy named, well,
there was a Jewish kid from a backward town,
a really backward town who only had been trained in manual skills.
And he started preaching and he preached that the world was, as we know,
it was about to end. And we were about to enter a new kind of paradise
because he was Jewish.
He figured it's gotta happen to Passover because a Passover,
you put out a cup for Elijah and Elijah's there to proceed the savior. Um,
the guy who will save the Jewish people.
So he went up to theholah city in Judaism to Jerusalem,
and he had a dinner, um,
this Passover dinner and they put out the cup and that's when the kingdom of God
was supposed to arrive his prediction of a kingdom of God arriving at that
particular Passover ceremony turned out to be utterly wrong. And in fact,
the Roman seized him and nailed him to a cross and
he died. It was the opposite of everything he'd predicted,
but the religion he'd put together was so,
and the religion really that Paul put together,
cuz Paul was an international figure. You know,
he was comfortable in the global world of the Roman empire,
but what Paul put together around Jesus was a super normal stimulus.
And it evoked a super normal response,
a super normal reflex and the flying saucer ideas that, you know,
here we are on earth, but there's this brace that's above us that can save us.
Um, that's pushing at the same buttons. Um,
Hitler was pushing at the same buttons. The world,
as we know is about to end and there's a new paradise and will Germans will rule
everything. Um,
so we are built to receive certain kind of stimuli.
God knows how we got built that way.
And when I went out in quest of the ecstatic of God,
the God's inside of us at the age of 13,
I was looking for that super normal,
those super normal responses in us and for the
superorimuli that evokeed them. And when you are doing art,
when you are doing commentary, when you're doing comedy,
you are hitting the buttons, you are creating super normal stimuli.
You are testing out jokes until they reach just the right shape.
And you know, what you can feel in the audience, what that shape is.
And then you repeat that shape,
knowing what its impact is gonna be on the audience. I wrote a new book. Um,
it took me a long time to write all of my previous books,
including how I accidentally started the sixties. And by the way,
it isn't the same 1995 manuscript.
I had 20 years of additional processing and was able to put a lot more meaning
into the book. And hopefully it's still really funny. Um,
but I was able to write a book in six weeks,
the first draft of 178,000 word book,
and a normal book is 90,000 words.
So this is almost twice the length of a normal book.
And I was able to do it because I had told all the stories in the book and I had
felt out how the audience was responded to the stories.
And I knew the words to use, and they were a well worn path in my brain.
So I simply put down on paper, an oral vocabulary,
but you it's the audience who shapes you by giving you
feedback. And eventually you perfect something. So it's like Nico Tinbergen,
super egg. I mean, new Nico timberberg was eventually able to make eggs,
super eggs that had de glow on them,
had polkadots on them that were absurd, but they still had the ability,
the way that flying saucer myths have the ability to evoke this sense
that there is a paradise beyond the world that we no.
Don't you think when you think of a super normal stimulus that when you see, uh,
you know, like a preacher on the pulpit, that's screaming with confidence.
When you see any of these things, like even when it comes to fake breasts,
like you, you're seeing something like, you know what you want,
you want a woman to be, uh, good at bearing children, right.
To have the right hip to waste ratio, uh, that she's, uh,
designed to breastfe has large breasts. Right. Even though, you know, it's fake,
it still hits whatever that genetic button is inside of your head. Yep.
And the alien theme, the idea behind it,
the archetype is kind of like space data, daddy, right. It's like, you know,
I know we're stupid,
but just like this guy who's screaming on the pulpit has all the answers. Like,
thank God someone has all the answers. Right. Well,
space daddy is for the atheists right. Space. Daddy is for the people,
you know what? I've listened to all these people down here.
I think they're full of, but space daddy's gonna help us out. Yeah.
Well, that's the general idea. He's that what it is? Yes. And when you've,
as I said, when you fashion a joke,
you're fashioning it to be a super normal stimulus, but.
Space, daddy might be real somewhere because we're dealing with, well,
look at the.
Ordinary numbers. Okay. As a science person. Okay. Um,
I have to tell you that there's only one place in which we've ever discovered
any evidence of life and it's down here on earth.
So I'm a skeptic about life being anywhere right now,
changing to a different scientific perspective.
There's this thing that I call super simultaneity,
super synchrony mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And when the universe starts as a,
an rapidly expanding sheet of nothing but space and time it's space,
time and speed, that's all it is. <affirmative>.
And when it precipitates inquas,
which is unlikely, how, how can space time and speed become particlesquas?
Right. Um,
the fact is that there are only something like 16 different forms of thosequas
and there are gazillion of identical copies of eachqua everywhere.
And they all spray into existence. At the same time, fast forward,
a couple of million years,
galaxies all are pretty much the same and all of them spring
into existence, pretty much at the same time,
at least the first generation of galaxies stars ignite within those
galaxies, all following pretty much the same principles.
They're all just big gravity balls. Um,
gravity's gravity balls all the way that's planets, that's moons,
all kinds of things.
So there is this tendency for the universe to do the same thing at pretty much
the same time, pretty much, same damned everywhere in this cosmos.
And we do know that there are biomolecules,
carbon based molecules being formed in interellar cold
gas clouds, intersellar hot gas clouds,
all kinds of unlikely places in the cosmos.
But those are very simple little molecules,
even though we call 'em biomolecules,
it simply means they've got carbon life depends on molecules in the case of your
genome. If we yanked just we took just one cell, you wouldn't miss it.
You have a hundred trillion others. Um, so we took just one cell from your body.
And we took out the genome, the, the what? Well,
it's actually the genome. So we took out the genome and we stretched it out,
cuz it's all tangled up in the cell.
It would be three feet long.
So there's a big distance between a tiny little molecule of ammonia
in an interstellar cloud. And that huge, very complex X,
highly ordered three foot long moleculecu or MOS of single
molecule. That's your genome. Um,
and we haven't learned very much at all about how you go from the simple
molecules to that incredibly complex molecules.
The origin of life is still one of the big puzzles, but again,
because they're super single Graney and super simultaneity all over the cosmos,
pretty much the same thing happens at pretty much the same time.
The odds are that there are millions of other planets that have
life. Those are the odds,
but I set all that aside because we don't have evidence of any life.
Uh, and we've been looking, okay, I'll tell you a story.
It seems to have nothing to do with anything. But once upon a time, uh,
a manager gave me an act to work with. It was earth, wind and fire.
And so I read all their lyrics. I read everything about them.
I studied them like otummodic scholar. I always did.
And finally I got to their album, em covers. And when I got together with, um,
the leader of the band, Maurice white for lunch, um,
cause I hadn't yet learned to set up my boundaries and tell people,
I'll only work with you.
If I can see you in your own environment for between one and three days,
that wasn't quite at that point yet I sat with my, with,
with Maurice said, Maurice, if I've got you right,
you believe that approximately 11,000 years ago,
people from another civilization someplace else and now our galaxy or beyond our
galaxy came to this earth and brought us all of our technologies and left the
messages of their technologies and the pyramids. If I got that right.
And Maurice smiled and he said, yes.
And so I said, okay, there's this scientist from Cornell university.
And he has just had a tremendous success with a science series on
PBS. It's the most watched series PBS has ever had.
And he's trying to put together an organization to find
extraterrestrial intelligence. So if I introduced the two of you,
would you be willing to do a benefit concert for him?
Because right now he's struggling to get money together. And Marie said, yes.
So we track down Carl leggin's summer cottage telephone number.
And I put together a conference call between Maurice white and um,
oh God, what's his name again? Billions and billions and billions of planets.
Carl Saer. Yeah. And, um,
as soon as Carl got wind of where Maurice was coming from,
pseudoscience conversation was over.
Cause Carl was already gambling too much on ideas that could get
him totally laughed out of science. So it was unfortunate,
but ever that was the early 1980s,
probably about actually, probably about 1980. Didn't he want to just.
Sit down with Mor and sort of explain what we know so far. No,
he couldn't afford this stuff based on was it was zachchararia.
You, you know, know it's all kinds of it's everywhere. Right?
You can find it all over the place, but did it make.
Did he have like.
A, a source? Uh, not that I asked him, no.
So I was too busy trying to put this yeah. This thing together.
And it was unfortunate. Yes. It would've been neat.
If the two of them had been able to sit down and talk.